Job Posting Title:
Analyst, IT Reporting

Job Description Summary:
To have a hand in building a new reporting infrastructure from the ground up to support a robust and meaningful business intelligence platform that serves the whole college.

Job Description:
Description of Duties and TasksEssential duties and responsibilities include the following. Other duties may be assigned.

    Designs, builds, tests, and maintains reports and dashboards for a variety of business use cases in Domo business intelligence platform.
    Reviews Designs, builds, tests of other report analysts.
    Works closely with end users to gather requirements for reports and provide guidance and recommendations on establishing KBRs and KPIs where needed.
    Identifies and vets source application data for transfer to a data hub/data warehouse and subsequent analysis, and sometimes assisting with construction or execution of ETL/ELT processes.
    Provides input into the methodologies, practices, documentation and standards used.
    Guides and recommends to other BI and IT teams to maintain an accurate and efficient reporting ecosystem with robust enterprise documentation.
    Identifies opportunities for process improvement in data collection, data analysis, business processes, and enterprise engagement with reporting.



KnowledgeMust possess required knowledge and be able to explain and demonstrate, with or without reasonable accommodations, that the essential functions of the job can be performed.

    Detailed knowledge and competency in at least two prominent reporting software tools.
    High level of knowledge and competency with database management systems.
    Experience with SQL to query data based on varying degrees of logic.
    Advanced experience with analytics platforms and tools like Domo, Tableau, Looker, Power BI, Qlik, Sisense, SAS, etc. (Domo a plus).
    Strong knowledge of best practices and principles behind setting, measuring, and refining KBRs and KPIs across a variety of business use cases.
    Knowledge of reporting tools and best practices of those specific tools.
    Thorough understanding of data management and ETL/ELT processes, experience with Informatica or other warehousing tools and iPaaS or other cloud-based enterprise tools a plus and the ability to mentor/guide others.
    Understanding of data warehousing principles and best practices and the ability to explain that understanding to others.



SkillsMust possess required skills and be able to explain and demonstrate, with or without reasonable accommodations, that the essential functions of the job can be performed.

    Maintaining an established work schedule.
    Effectively using interpersonal and communications skills including tact and diplomacy.
    Effectively using organizational and planning skills with attention to detail and follow-through.
    Creating specialized reporting solutions, using multiple files and file pointers.
    Data collection, analysis, and report writing.
    Ability to understand and follow instructions precisely.
    Maintaining confidentiality of work-related information and materials.
    Establishing and maintaining effective working relationships.
    Ability to work independently and be self-motivated.
    Ability to communicate with a broad range of audience including senior level leadership.



Technology Skills

    Use a variety of spreadsheet, word processing, database, and presentation software.
    Use query and control languages, program, create complex reports, deal with database management systems, and provide technical support.



Required Work Experience

    Two years related work experience.



Preferred Work Experience

    One or more years of experience with enterprise reporting and analytics, from providing scheduled daily notifications to producing executive-level analysis, SQL experience a plus.



Required Education

    Bachelor's degree.
