Overview:
The Business Data Analyst reports directly to the SVP of Deposits and Payments and is responsible for providing operational support enabling business capability and driving business value. The Business Data Analyst supports internal business units by performing forecasts, analysis, report development, trending analysis, product roadmap implementation, and other business planning support. Furthermore, the role will support through the collection, aggregation, and reporting of data to inform product/sales strategy recommendations based on analysis of profitability, competitiveness, and product performance. Collaborates with key stakeholders and project/program teams to assist in defining business requirements for project scope and to ensure objectives are met within prescribed timeframes and budgets and provides insight into existing data; interprets results by providing insightful and forward-looking analysis and research.
This is an onsite position in Tullahoma, Tennessee.
#LI-Onsite
Responsibilities:

    Provide use cases and business requirements as needed for member experience and product-related initiatives.
    Works with other analysts to identify and assist in development and implementation of dashboards, reporting and data models that enable relevant personalized service.
    Provides updates on strategic projects and creates remediation plans for projects that are behind schedule.
    Provide communications support to senior leadership for Board meetings, strategic or operational planning events, monthly business meetings, etc.
    Removes obstacles and impediments to ensure business and operational objectives are met.
    Communicates with project stakeholders and executive management to provide insight on issues.
    Monitors and contributes to project execution that deliver exceptional business value.
    Collect and synthesize Voice of the Member feedback; prepare meaningful and actionable insights. Collaborate with internal departments and external vendors to champion solutions that drive and improve the member experience.
    Establishes and monitors Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), member insights, and Key Risk Indicators (KRIs) and uses data to improve member experiences.
    Develops forecasts/plans for the digital banking experience. Delivers quantitative and qualitative insights for all online channels (chats, calls, emails, etc.).
    Ensures consistent visibility for program and project teams by monitoring and reporting business objectives, program/project achievements, and key indicators.
    Informs efforts to change or enhance existing product features.
    Analyzes and evaluates product performance metrics to form recommendations regarding market opportunities and product enhancements.
    Develops recommendations to launch new products and the evaluation and decision to buy/build or ally.
    Partners with Marketing and product area leads to define go-to-market and value proposition strategy of the product/feature.
    Interprets performance results to inform product or sales forecast and planning and contributes to decisions regarding product pricing and profitability.
    Identify, monitor, and evaluate key metrics to ensure system health and business progress within areas of influence
    Collects and maintains all appropriate information such as inbound volume data to support continuous improvement in the forecasts and associated staffing requirements for all online support channels. Ensures maximum utilization of existing technologies through effective traffic distribution and resources staffing.
    Support and advise leadership on new capabilities and industry trends through research and analysis of internal and external business data, industry best practices, and competitive information.
    Deliver effective and engaging reports and presentations.
    Present results of analysis and/or recommendations to executive business leaders, business partners, and at times external parties. Communicate action plans and priorities to appropriate partners.
    Facilitates collaboration on creative alternatives to project challenges with subject matter experts
    Identifies and applies best practices and needed process improvements.
    Ensures compliance with company policies and procedures.
    Maintains a strong sense of urgency
    Manage and develop relationships with internal business customers and peer IT teams
    Read all internal publications including HUB and Possibilities.
    Perform other duties as required or assigned.

Qualifications:

    Bachelor's Degree Accounting, Business, Finance, or a similar degree or equivalent work experience required required
    3-5 years Preparing presentations and presenting to senior management required
    3-5 years Project management skills including the ability to handle multiple projects concurrently ranging from initial concepts through implementation preferred
    3-5 years Financial Institution experience required
    3-5 years Knowledge of deposit, payment and digital banking products required
    3-5 years Leadership skills including the ability to work and influence successfully within a matrix environment and build effective business partnerships with all levels of team members preferred preferred
    Ability to manage process discovery, process modeling, and process improvement activities
    Ability to think creatively to find innovative solutions to complex analytical questions
    Advanced Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, Outlook and PowerPoint) skills
    Excellent verbal, written, and interpersonal communication skills
    Strong collaboration and partnering skills
    Strong analytical skills
    Ability to build effective business partnerships with all levels of the organization
    Regular and reliable attendance is required
