The Analytics Manager I position is a key contributor to cutting-edge analytic work that spans the broad spectrum of healthcare data projects at HSAG. Driven by intellectual curiosity and a passion for healthcare quality, this position manages healthcare analytic projects through various stages including implementation, day-to-day management, analysis, and reporting. Activities include developing work plans and timelines; documenting and overseeing project tasks; organizing and maintaining project files; leading client teleconferences and meetings; performing online research on healthcare topics; supervising and/or mentoring junior staff; and providing regular progress reports to Data Science & Advanced Analytics management staff.

Details regarding potential project assignments will be discussed with potential candidates during the interview process.


Essential Competencies, Duties and Responsibilities

    Serve as an integral part of HSAG’s Data Science & Advanced Analytics division.
    Act in a liaison capacity between appropriate management personnel and staff, transmitting decisions and information to organizational units as appropriate, as well as outside agencies and organizations.
    Manage project tasks, including communication (written, phone, fax), coaching, and training.
    Communicate with project partners, subcontractors, and other entities on analytic-related projects.
    Maintain, tag, and sort documents for assigned projects on appropriate Share Point team sites and HSAG’s corporate and federal networks following HSAG prescribed governance rules.
    Prepare support documents needed for project deliverables and assist with documentation and submission of deliverable using the appropriate mechanism (i.e., electronic, hard copy, direct data entry etc.).
    Develop and adhere to analytic project time and task schedules, identify opportunities to improve the project process, and develop quality improvement activities accordingly.
    Meet agreed upon deadlines in a timely fashion and accurately prepare and type deliverables, reports, various project documents, letters, and other material from copy, rough draft, transcribing machine or other prescribed instructions.
    Develop written and data-oriented reports in Microsoft Word and Excel.
    Conduct research via the Internet including literature searches of clinical topics as assigned.
    Participate in pertinent healthcare educational and training presentations as required.
    Conduct Internal Quality Control (IQC) monitoring regarding efficiency/effectiveness of activities conducted. Present issues and recommended solutions and take corrective actions as indicated.
    Assist with writing new business proposals.
    Represent HSAG in a professional manner at all times.

Compensation: 80,000 - 95,000 DOE

Job Requirements:


Education and/or Experience

    Bachelor’s degree in business, science, or healthcare-related field. Master’s degree preferred.
    At least seven (7) years of work experience.
    At least five (5) years of healthcare experience.
    At least five (5) years of project coordination and/or management experience.
    Experience managing at least three (3) projects or major tasks at one time.
    At least two (2) years as a supervisor or mentor to junior staff.
    Some proposal writing experience.



Other Qualifications

    Excellent English/communication skills (i.e., spelling, composition, grammar, proofreading and editing).
    Excellent interpersonal skills.
    Proficient in Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Excel, and Outlook.
    Experience in conducting research via the Internet.
    Ability to handle several projects simultaneously and work with multiple teams.
